This has indeed been a unique class of Gilead
at a most unique time in world events.
The Bethel family is fully aware
of what transpired.
But since this program
will be broadcast to our global brotherhood,
let me remind all of you of what transpired.
You are well aware
of the unique time in world events
—a global pandemic!
What makes this class so unique?
A normal class of Gilead
consists of some 50 students.
The 149th class is made up of just 25.
Your class is abnormal.
But why?
You know why.
But let me share your experience
with the worldwide brotherhood.
Those who had been invited
to attend this class of Gilead
had begun to arrive at the Watchtower
Educational Center at Patterson, New York.
The 25 students in this class
actually arrived in mid-March of 2020.
And as we all know,
it was at that time that the coronavirus
was declared to be a global pandemic.
Most travel was shut down.
The rest of their classmates could not come.
Because of government restrictions
on educational facilities,
the 149th class had to be postponed.
You students were stuck at Patterson,
New York, with no classes in session.
Commendably, many of you
were able to work remotely
for your home branch office in the interim.
Finally, here in New York,
government agencies
allowed for educational facilities
to again conduct classes
if physical distancing could be maintained.
With just 25 of you,
that was possible in the Gilead lecture hall.
So we have only 25 “abnormal” students
who will graduate today.
To clarify,
it is the number of students
that makes this class “abnormal.”
But I am told by your instructors
that, individually,
you are very “normal.”
In fact, they are very impressed
with your spirituality
and your Christian personalities.
You have excelled in your studies
and classroom participation.
It’s a delight to be with you
on this very special day.
What else, though, makes this
an “abnormal” Gilead graduation?
You were not able to invite
family members and close friends
to be here in person with you
for this exciting event.
However, the Teaching Committee
made arrangements for you
to tie in a number of these ones
for a streamed recording of the program.
And the good news is
that the entire program
is being recorded and will be posted
as a future JW Broadcasting monthly program
in all of the approved languages.
We have a few statistics
to share about the 149th class.
Of the 25 students, 8 are married couples;
7 are single brothers,
and there are 2 single sisters in the class.
I guess they’re still single.
All were serving at a Bethel branch facility
or at a remote translation office
before attending school.
The students are from 14 different countries
and speak 29 different languages.
Their average age is 41.
That’s a good age.
Forty-four years ago, I was 41.
Their average years
in full-time service is 20.
In the Bible, Gilead referred
to a territory in Israel.
And that name, “Gilead,”
was derived from a Hebrew word
that meant “witness heap.”
When the school
was first inaugurated in 1943,
“Gilead” was an appropriate name.
One of the instructors
described the purpose of the school,
saying that it was
“to instill in the students
a more intense desire
to share in the evangelizing work.”
And for decades,
thousands of missionaries were sent out
to open up new territories around the world.
A “heap of witness” was given
during that period of time.
However, in 2011,
the Governing Body
adjusted the specific purpose of Gilead.
Instead of focusing on opening up
new territories for preaching,
the purpose of the curriculum changed.
As we mentioned previously,
this entire class was already serving
at a Bethel facility
or a remote translation office.
The goal of Gilead now
is to bolster such ones so as to strengthen
and stabilize God’s people
in the respective territories
to which they will be assigned.
Then, what about the all-important
evangelizing work?
Who is assisting
with the “heap of witness” worldwide?
That’s now the focus
of the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Each Branch Committee
selects qualified pioneers
who are willing to be transferred
to another part of the country
that needs help with the preaching work.
By using the large pool
of zealous local pioneers,
the “heap of witness” is still being given
where the need is greater.
These local ones
are already adapted to the culture,
climate, and living conditions
in their countries
and, often times,
they already know the language
where there is the greatest need.
However, the 25 of you
in this class of Gilead
are expected to strengthen
and stabilize God’s people
where you are assigned.
Well, what does that entail?
For you brothers,
in time, it may mean that you
will be given more responsibility.
But your training has given you another way
to stabilize fellow believers
in your assignment.
And this applies to all 25 of you,
whether brothers or sisters.
You have been elevated while here at Gilead.
In fact, in the territory of Gilead,
in the Bible,
the elevation changes dramatically.
In the Jordan Valley,
Gilead was 690 feet,
or 210 meters below sea level.
But traveling east
to the domelike mountainous region of Gilead,
the elevation rises
to over 3,300 feet,
or 1,000 meters.
You students came to Gilead below sea level.
But with daily Bible study and lectures,
you have been elevated.
Throughout the past five months,
your faith has grown.
Your spirituality has been enhanced.
Your Christian personality has been refined.
You have been elevated.
You will be going out to your assignment,
not so much for a “heap of witness,”
but as a “heap of example.”
In this way,
you will strengthen and stabilize
those you work with at the branch
and those you associate
with in your congregations.
Find Deuteronomy 8:17, 18.
Never forget that your power and strength,
your spiritual wealth,
does not originate with you.
It is Jehovah who has made
this transformation in you.
Read with me, Deuteronomy 8:17, 18:
“If you should say in your heart,
“‘My own power
“‘and the strength of my own hand
“have produced this wealth for me,’
“remember that it is Jehovah your God
“who gives power to you to make wealth,
“in order to carry out his covenant
“that he swore to your forefathers,
as it is today.”
Today, you will graduate
from the 149th class of Gilead.
But you will strengthen
and stabilize those in your assignment
if you “remember
“that it is Jehovah your God
who gives power to you.”